One of the key concepts in React is writing declarative code.
You may have heard people talk about imperative versus declarative code.
I hope to explain the difference clearly with
something you've probably already experienced.
Consider I'm in my car and I want to keep the temperature somewhere comfortable.
Maybe that's around 71 degrees.
My car has two knobs to reach that state.
A knob that controls the temperature and one that controls the airflow.
When it gets too hot or too cold,
I have to do imperative work.
I have to manage these knobs the entire drive.
I accumulate over time,
this state of 71 degrees but I never actually talked about that state.
Now, let's consider I got a new car.
It doesn't have these knobs for climate control.
Instead, it lets me declare a temperature.
Instead of fiddling around with the knobs over the course of my drive to get 71 degrees,
I just tell the car the state I want to be in,
I set the temperature to 71 degrees and it handles the imperative work for me.
React lets you do the same thing with your code.
You declare state and markup and react does
the imperative work of keeping the dom in sync with your app